.. _upgrade-to-2-5-0:

*******************
2.5.0 release notes
*******************

*November 2025*

Welcome to django CMS versioning 2.5.0!

These release notes cover the new features, the refreshed Python and Django support,
and the dependency change you'll want to be aware of when upgrading from an earlier
2.x release.


Django and Python compatibility
===============================

django CMS versioning supports **Django 4.2, 5.0, 5.1, 5.2, and 6.0**. We highly
recommend and only support the latest release of each series.

It supports **Python 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, and 3.14**. As for Django, we highly
recommend and only support the latest release of each series.

.. note::

    Support for **Python 3.9 has been dropped**. Upgrade your interpreter to Python
    3.10 or later before upgrading djangocms-versioning.


Features
========

Create translations from preview mode
-------------------------------------

The language menu now lets editors start a new translation of a versioned object
directly from preview mode (e.g., of a published page content), removing a detour
through the admin or the edit mode of a new draft for multilingual content.
The language menu is also only shown when more than one language is configured,
so single-language sites get a tidier interface.


Respect site-specific language configurations
---------------------------------------------

When determining which languages are available for an object, versioning now honours
per-site language settings. Multi-site projects with different language sets per site
behave correctly as a result.


Permission handling
-------------------

* Indicator menus and version-locking actions now consistently respect the configured
  permissions, so users are only offered actions they are allowed to perform.
* The display name of the ``delete_versionlock`` permission was corrected from
  "Can unlock verision" to "Can unlock version". The permission **codename is
  unchanged**, so no changes to your groups, code or data are required.


Dependencies
============

django CMS versioning now depends on `django-fsm-2
<https://github.com/django-commons/django-fsm-2>`__ instead of the original, no longer
maintained ``django-fsm``. ``django-fsm-2`` is a drop-in successor maintained by Django
Commons. If your project requires ``django-fsm`` explicitly, replace it with
``django-fsm-2``.


Bug fixes and maintenance
=========================

* The version toolbar no longer uses ``_original_manager`` unnecessarily.
* The JavaScript build has been modernised and the legacy jQuery bundle removed.
* Translation catalogues were updated.
