.. _upgrade-to-2-6-0:

*******************
2.6.0 release notes
*******************

*June 2026*

Welcome to django CMS versioning 2.6.0!

These release notes cover the new features, the broadened Django support, and the bug
fixes you'll want to be aware of when upgrading from an earlier 2.x release.


Django and Python compatibility
===============================

django CMS versioning supports **Django 4.2, 5.0, 5.1, 5.2, 6.0, and 6.1**. We highly
recommend and only support the latest release of each series.

It supports **Python 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, and 3.14**.


Features
========

Protect only published versions from deletion
---------------------------------------------

``DJANGOCMS_VERSIONING_ALLOW_DELETING_VERSIONS`` gains a third option,
``constants.DELETE_NON_PUBLIC_ONLY`` (``"non-public only"``). With it, users can delete
draft, unpublished and archived versions, while published versions stay protected from
deletion. This is a middle ground between the existing ``DELETE_NONE`` (the default,
protect everything that is a source for another version) and ``DELETE_ANY`` (allow
deleting any version). It avoids accidental deletion of public content.
See :doc:`/api/settings` for details.


Versioning object tools on grouper change views
-----------------------------------------------

Versioned grouper admins now show the versioning object tools (the preview, edit and
version actions) on the change view, not just the change list, for a more consistent
editing experience.


Django 6.1 and django CMS 5.1 compatibility
-------------------------------------------

Internal queries, breadcrumbs and version checks were updated to work with Django 6.1
and django CMS 5.1.


Bug fixes
=========

* Prepopulated content fields (for example an auto-populated ``slug``) no longer break
  the versioned admin, including for non-public versions.
* The version comparison view no longer includes the django CMS toolbar in the compared
  markup.
* Fixed a typo when reading the ``DJANGOCMS_VERSIONING_ON_PUBLISH_REDIRECT`` setting.


Documentation and maintenance
=============================

* The documentation has been reorganised along the `Diátaxis <https://diataxis.fr/>`__
  framework, with a new tutorial for adding versioning to your own models.
* The test suite now runs on pytest.
